---
title: "Request Processing"
weight: 20
---

## IDynamicClientRegistrationRequestProcessor
The *IDynamicClientRegistrationValidator* is the contract for the service that
processes a dynamic client registration request. It contains a single
*ProcessAsync(...)* method.

Conceptually, the request processing step is responsible for setting properties
on the *Client* model that are generated by the Configuration API itself. In
contrast, the *IDynamicClientRegistrationRequestProcessor* is responsible for
checking the validity of the metadata supplied in the registration request, and
using that metadata to set properties of a *Client* model. The request processor
is also responsible for passing the finished *Client* to the [store]({{< ref
"./store.md" >}})

#### Members

| name | description |
| --- | --- |
| ProcessAsync(…) | Processes a valid dynamic client registration request, setting properties of the client that are not specified in the request, and storing the new client in the IClientConfigurationStore. |


## DynamicClientRegistrationRequestProcessor 
The *DynamicClientRegistrationRequestProcessor* is the default implementation of the *IDynamicClientRegistrationRequestProcessor*. If you need to customize some aspect
of Dynamic Client Registration request processing, we recommend that you extend this
class and override the appropriate virtual methods.

```
public class DynamicClientRegistrationRequestProcessor : IDynamicClientRegistrationRequestProcessor
```

## Request Processing Steps
Each of these virtual methods represents one step of request processing.
Each step is passed a [DynamicClientRegistrationContext]({{< ref
"./models.md#dynamicclientregistrationcontext" >}}) and returns a task
that returns an [*IStepResult*]({{< ref "./models.md#istepresult"
>}}). The *DynamicClientRegistrationContext* includes the client model that will
have its properties set, the DCR request, and other contextual information. The
*IStepResult* either represents that the step succeeded or failed.

| name | description |
| --- | --- |
| virtual AddClientId | Generates a client ID and adds it to the validatedRequest's client model. |
| virtual AddClientSecret | Adds a client secret to a dynamic client registration request. |

## Secret Generation
The *AddClientSecret* method is responsible for adding the client's secret and
plaintext of that secret to the context's *Items* dictionary for later use. If you want to customize secret generation more simply, you can override the GenerateSecret method, which only needs to return a tuple containing the secret and its plaintext.

| name | description |
| --- | --- |
| virtual GenerateSecret | Generates a secret for a dynamic client registration request. |