---
title: "Duende IdentityServer v6.3 to v7.0"
weight: 40
---

{{% notice note %}}
This upgrade guide is work in progress based on the currently available [preview version of v7.0](https://github.com/DuendeSoftware/IdentityServer/releases/tag/7.0.0-preview.2).
{{% /notice %}}

## What's New
TODO

## Step 1: Update NuGet package

In your IdentityServer host project, update the version of the NuGet package reference. 
For example in your project file:

```
<PackageReference Include="Duende.IdentityServer" Version="6.2.0" />
```

would change to: 

```
<PackageReference Include="Duende.IdentityServer" Version="7.0-preview.2" />
```

## Step 2: Update Database Schema (if necessary)

IdentityServer is abstracted from the data store on multiple levels, so the exact steps involved in updating your data store will depend on your implementation details. 

#### Custom Store Implementations
The core of IdentityServer is written against the [store interfaces]({{<ref "reference/stores" >}}), which abstract all the implementation details of actually storing data. If your IdentityServer implementation includes a custom implementation of those stores, then you will have to determine how best to include the changes in the model in the underlying data store and make any necessary changes to schemas, if your data store requires that.

#### Duende.IdentityServer.EntityFramework
We also provide a default implementation of the stores in the *Duende.IdentityServer.EntityFramework* package, but this implementation is still highly abstracted because it is usable with any database that has an EF provider. Different database vendors have very different dialects of sql that have different syntax and type systems, so we don't provide schema changes directly. Instead, we provide the Entity Framework entities and mappings which can be used with Entity Framework's migrations feature to generate the schema updates that are needed in your database. 

To generate a migration for the new columns, run the command below. Note that you might need to adjust paths based on your specific organization of the migration files.

```shell
dotnet ef migrations add Update_DuendeIdentityServer_v7_0_preview_2 -c ConfigurationDbContext -o Migrations/ConfigurationDb

dotnet ef migrations add Update_DuendeIdentityServer_v7_0_preview_2 -c PersistedGrantDbContext -o Migrations/PersistedGrantDb
```

The ServerSideSession.Id property has been changed from `int` to `long`. The migrations created handles the data type change, but fails to drop and re-create the primary key. If the primary key constraint is not removed, running the migration fails. The primary key of the table needs to be dropped before the alter and then recreated. The easiest is to update the generated migrations file:

```

// Add this line before AlterColumn
migrationBuilder.DropPrimaryKey("PK_ServerSideSessions", "ServerSideSessions");

// This should already be in the generated code
migrationBuilder.AlterColumn<long>(
    name: "Id",
    table: "ServerSideSessions",
    type: "bigint",
    nullable: false,
    oldClrType: typeof(int),
    oldType: "int")
    .Annotation("SqlServer:Identity", "1, 1")
    .OldAnnotation("SqlServer:Identity", "1, 1");

// Add this after AlterColumn
migrationBuilder.AddPrimaryKey("PK_ServerSideSessions", "ServerSideSessions", "Id");

```

{{% notice info %}}
 For most deployments the approach above will work. For deployments with high volumes of sessions, high availability demands and no low traffic hours this might be cause unacceptable downtime. The impact and possible workarounds depends on the database engine used.
{{% /notice %}}

Once you've updated the migration, they can be applied to your database:

```shell
dotnet ef database update -c ConfigurationDbContext

dotnet ef database update -c PersistedGrantDbContext
```

Some organizations prefer to use other tools for managing schema changes. You're free to manage your schema however you see fit, as long as the entities can be successfully mapped. Even if you're not going to ultimately use Entity Framework migrations to manage your database changes, generating a migration can be a useful development step to get an idea of what needs to be done.

## Step 3: Breaking changes
* A new interface *IIdentityServerTools* has been introduced for the *IdentityServerTools* helper class to allow mocking. Update any direct references to *IdentityServerTools* to *IIdentityServerTools*.

## Step 5: Done!

That's it. Of course, at this point you can and should test that your IdentityServer is updated and working properly.
