---
title: "Duende IdentityServer v7.2 to v7.3"
sidebar:
  order: 27
  label: v7.2 → v7.3
---

This upgrade guide covers upgrading from Duende IdentityServer v7.2 to v7.3 ([release notes](https://github.com/DuendeSoftware/products/releases/tag/is-7.3.0)).

IdentityServer 7.3.0 is a significant release that includes:

- [FAPI 2.0 Security Profile][1] certification
- JWT Response from the introspection endpoint ([RFC 9701](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9701.html))
- Diagnostic data
- Removal of the experimental label from OpenTelemetry metrics
- Additional license compliance warnings
- Several bug fixes
- Numerous small code quality and performance enhancements from the community

There are no schema changes needed for IdentityServer 7.3. Small code changes maybe be required for some users to upgrade:

- The `SendLogoutNotificationAsync` method has been removed from the `DefaultBackChannelLogoutService` class
- Client `Secret` is now required for Clients with `ClientCredentials` grant

## Step 1: Update NuGet package

In your IdentityServer host project, update the version of the NuGet.
For example in your project file:

```xml
<PackageReference Include="Duende.IdentityServer" Version="7.2.0" />
```

would change to:

```xml
<PackageReference Include="Duende.IdentityServer" Version="7.3.0-rc.1" />
```

## Step 2: Breaking Changes

Small code changes maybe be required for some users to upgrade.

#### The `SendLogoutNotificationAsync` Method Has Been Removed From The `DefaultBackChannelLogoutService` Class

To fix a bug where when using Entity Framework Core, code which previously executed in parallel needed to be modified to execute sequentially.
This required the removal of the `SendLogoutNotificationAsync` method in the `DefaultBackChannelLogoutService` class.

If you have previously overridden the `SendLogoutNotificationAsync` as an extensibility point, you will likely need to move your customization to the `PostLogoutJwt` method.

https://github.com/DuendeSoftware/products/pull/2019

#### Client `Secret` Is Now Required For Clients With `ClientCredentials` Grant

Previously, it was possible to configure a client to allow the `ClientCredentials` grant without requiring a client secret, which is undesirable.
The default validation of clients has been updated to ensure any client which allows the `ClientCredentials` grant also sets the `RequireClientSecret` flag to `true`,
to disallow the configuration of a private client to behave like a public client.

https://github.com/DuendeSoftware/products/pull/1796

#### Removal Of The Experimental Label From OpenTelemetry Metrics

Several [OpenTelemetry metrics](/identityserver/diagnostics/otel.md#detailed-metrics) previously created by the meter named
"Duende.IdentityServer.Experimental" have been moved to the "Duende.IdentityServer" meter.

#### Default Supported Signing Algorithms Have Changed For Client Assertions And Request Objects

To support the [FAPI 2.0 Security Profile][1], we've added new options to configure the supported signing algorithms for 
client assertions and request objects, and only included asymmetric algorithms by default. Before this release, all 
signing algorithms were supported, including the symmetric algorithms `HS256`, `HS384`, and `HS512`.
 
If you're using symmetric keys to sign client assertions or request objects, you can restore the previous behavior by adding the 
following code to your IdentityServer configuration:

```csharp title="Program.cs" {4,18-20,24,38-40}
builder.Services.AddIdentityServer(options =>
{
    // To re-enable symmetric algorithms for signing client assertions:
    options.SupportedClientAssertionSigningAlgorithms = 
    [
        SecurityAlgorithms.RsaSha256,
        SecurityAlgorithms.RsaSha384,
        SecurityAlgorithms.RsaSha512,

        SecurityAlgorithms.RsaSsaPssSha256,
        SecurityAlgorithms.RsaSsaPssSha384,
        SecurityAlgorithms.RsaSsaPssSha512,

        SecurityAlgorithms.EcdsaSha256,
        SecurityAlgorithms.EcdsaSha384,
        SecurityAlgorithms.EcdsaSha512,

        SecurityAlgorithms.HmacSha256,
        SecurityAlgorithms.HmacSha384,
        SecurityAlgorithms.HmacSha512
    ];
    
    // To re-enable symmetric algorithms for signing request objects:
    options.SupportedRequestObjectSigningAlgorithms = 
    [
        SecurityAlgorithms.RsaSha256,
        SecurityAlgorithms.RsaSha384,
        SecurityAlgorithms.RsaSha512,

        SecurityAlgorithms.RsaSsaPssSha256,
        SecurityAlgorithms.RsaSsaPssSha384,
        SecurityAlgorithms.RsaSsaPssSha512,

        SecurityAlgorithms.EcdsaSha256,
        SecurityAlgorithms.EcdsaSha384,
        SecurityAlgorithms.EcdsaSha512,

        SecurityAlgorithms.HmacSha256,
        SecurityAlgorithms.HmacSha384,
        SecurityAlgorithms.HmacSha512
    ];
});
```

https://github.com/DuendeSoftware/products/pull/2077

## Step 3: Done!

That's it. Of course, at this point you can and should test that your IdentityServer is updated and working properly.

[1]: https://openid.net/specs/fapi-security-profile-2_0-final.html