---
title: "Duende IdentityServer v6.3 to v7.0"
sidebar:
  order: 30
  label: v6.3 → v7.0
---

IdentityServer v7.0 includes support for .NET 8, pushed authorization requests, OpenTelemetry metrics, cleanup job
improvements, and many other fixes and enhancements. Please see
our [release notes](https://github.com/DuendeSoftware/products/releases/tag/is%2F7.0.0) for complete details.

## Step 1: Update .NET Version

In your IdentityServer host project, update the version of the .NET framework. For example in your project file:

```xml

<TargetFramework>net6.0</TargetFramework>
```

would change to:

```xml

<TargetFramework>net8.0</TargetFramework>
```

Any NuGet packages that you are using that target an older version of .NET should also be updated.
For example, the version of `Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore.SqlServer` or `Microsoft.AspNetCore.Authentication.Google`
should be updated.
Depending on what your IdentityServer host project is using, there may or may not be code changes based on those updated
dependencies.

## Step 2: Update NuGet package

In your IdentityServer host project, update the version of the Duende.IdentityServer package.
For example in your project file:

```xml

<PackageReference Include="Duende.IdentityServer" Version="6.3.0"/>
```

would change to:

```xml

<PackageReference Include="Duende.IdentityServer" Version="7.0"/>
```

## Step 3: Update Database Schema

The schema updates required in this version are:

- The server-side session entity in `Duende.IdentityServer.EntityFramework` now uses a 64-bit long as its primary key (
  previously was a 32-bit int).
- Two new properties have been added to the client model for PAR support.
    - `Client.RequirePushedAuthorization` is a new boolean property that controls if this client requires PAR. PAR is
      required if either the global configuration is enabled or if the client's flag is enabled (this can't be used to
      opt out of the global configuration). It is safe to initialize this column to false for existing clients, which
      will mean that the global configuration will be used.
    - `Client.PushedAuthorizationLifetime` is a new nullable integer property that controls the lifetime of pushed
      authorization requests (in seconds) for a client. If this lifetime is set, it takes precedence over the global
      configuration. It is safe to initialize this column to `null` for existing clients, which means the global
      configuration is used.
- A new table has been added to store pushed authorization requests. This new table contains a hashed identifier, the
  pushed parameters (as a string, serialized and data protected), and the expiration time of the request.

IdentityServer is abstracted from the data store on multiple levels, so the steps involved in updating your data store
will depend on your implementation details.

#### Custom Store Implementations

The core of IdentityServer is written against the [store interfaces](/identityserver/v7/reference/stores), which
abstract all the implementation details of actually storing data. If your IdentityServer implementation includes a
custom implementation of those stores, then you will have to determine how best to include the changes in the model in
the underlying data store and make any necessary changes to schemas, if your data store requires that.

#### Duende.IdentityServer.EntityFramework

We also provide a default implementation of the stores in the `Duende.IdentityServer.EntityFramework` package, but this
implementation is still highly abstracted because it is usable with any database that has an EF provider. Different
database vendors have very different dialects of sql that have different syntax and type systems, so we don't provide
schema changes directly. Instead, we provide the Entity Framework entities and mappings which can be used with Entity
Framework's migrations feature to generate the schema updates that are needed in your database.

To generate a migration for the new columns, run the command below. Note that you might need to adjust paths based on
your specific organization of the migration files.

```bash title=Terminal
dotnet ef migrations add Update_DuendeIdentityServer_v7_0 -c ConfigurationDbContext -o Migrations/ConfigurationDb
dotnet ef migrations add Update_DuendeIdentityServer_v7_0 -c PersistedGrantDbContext -o Migrations/PersistedGrantDb
```

The `ServerSideSession.Id` property has been changed from `int` to `long`. The generated migration handles the data type
change but does not take into account that this column is the primary key for the table. If the primary key constraint
is not removed, running the migration will fail. The primary key of the table needs to be dropped before the type is
altered and then recreated. The easiest way to do so is to update the generated migration file:

```csharp
// Add this line before AlterColumn
migrationBuilder.DropPrimaryKey("PK_ServerSideSessions", "ServerSideSessions");

// This should already be in the generated code
migrationBuilder.AlterColumn<long>(
    name: "Id",
    table: "ServerSideSessions",
    type: "bigint",
    nullable: false,
    oldClrType: typeof(int),
    oldType: "int")
    .Annotation("SqlServer:Identity", "1, 1")
    .OldAnnotation("SqlServer:Identity", "1, 1");

// Add this after AlterColumn
migrationBuilder.AddPrimaryKey("PK_ServerSideSessions", "ServerSideSessions", "Id");

```

:::note
For most deployments the approach above will work. For deployments with high volumes of sessions, high availability
demands and no low traffic hours this might cause unacceptable downtime. The impact and possible workarounds depend on
the database engine used, but most databases include features for performing indexing operations and schema changes to
an online system. Please consult your database's documentation or your DBA for more guidance.
:::

Once you've updated that migration, both migrations should be applied to your database:

```bash title=Terminal
dotnet ef database update -c ConfigurationDbContext
dotnet ef database update -c PersistedGrantDbContext
```

Some organizations prefer to use other tools for managing schema changes. You're free to manage your schema however you
see fit, as long as the entities can be successfully mapped. Even if you're not going to ultimately use Entity Framework
migrations to manage your database changes, generating a migration can be a useful development step to get an idea of
what needs to be done.

## Step 4: Breaking changes

#### Only impacts particular customizations or edge cases

- The `DefaultCorsPolicyService` now depends on the `IConfigurationDbContext` directly, instead of taking a dependency
  on the `IServiceProvider` and resolving that DbContext from it. If you have a customized CORS implementation that
  derives from the `DefaultCorsPolicyService`, you need to update the constructor of your derived class to use the
  `IConfigurationDbContext`.
- The `DPoPProofValidationContext` has been refactored. Instead of the `Client` property, we now put the relevant
  details (expiration validation mode and clock skew) directly in the context. We also have added the HTTP method and
  URL to the context. If you have a custom implementation of the `IDPoPProofValidator` or a class that derives from the
  `DefaultDPoPProofValidator`, update your usage of the context appropriately.
- The `DefaultTokenService` no longer includes an `IHttpContextAccessor`. This member was unused by the default
  implementation and marked as obsolete. Customizations that derive from the `DefaultTokenService` no longer need to
  pass the accessor to the base constructor. If such a customization needs the accessor, add it to the derived class.
- The `ValidatedAuthorizeRequest.RequestedResourceIndicators` property was misspelled and has been renamed
  `RequestedResourceIndicators`.
- The reference token store now includes the session id when revoking reference tokens. Implementors of
  `IReferenceTokenStore` should update their implementation of token revocation to include the session id.
- Invalid prompt modes now cause validation errors that result in an HTTP 400 (Bad Request). Previously, invalid prompt
  modes were ignored. This complies with updates to the OpenID Connect specification.
- A new interface `IIdentityServerTools` has been introduced for the `IdentityServerTools` helper class to allow
  mocking. Update any direct references to `IdentityServerTools` to `IIdentityServerTools`.

#### Newly Deprecated

- `IAuthorizationParametersMessageStore` is deprecated. PAR is a more robust/standardized approach to get similar
  benefits.

- The `IHttpContextAccessor` in the `EndSessionRequestValidator` is unused and has been marked as obsolete. It will be
  removed in a future version.

#### Previously Deprecated, Now Removed

- The obsolete `IdentityServerOrigin` constant has been removed.
- Several obsolete extension methods on `HttpContext` have been removed. These methods are replaced by methods in
  `IServerUrls` and `IIssuerNameService`. See #1457
    - `HttpContext.GetSchemeSupportsSignOutAsync` is replaced by `IAuthenticationHandlerProvider.GetHandlerAsync` (you
      will also need to check if the handler implements `IAuthenticationSignOutHandler`).
    - `HttpContext.GetIdentityServerOrigin` and `HttpContext.SetIdentityServerOrigin` are replaced by
      `IServerUrls.Origin`.
    - `HttpContext.GetIdentityServerBasePath` and `HttpContext.SetIdentityServerBasePath` are replaced by
      `IServerUrls.BasePath`.
    - `GetIdentityServerHost` is replaced by `IServerUrls.Origin`
    - `GetIdentityServerBaseUrl` is replaced by `IServerUrls.BaseUrl`
    - `GetIdentityServerRelativeUrl` is replaced by `IServerUrls.GetIdentityServerRelativeUrl`
    - `GetIdentityServerIssuerUri` is replaced by `IIssuerNameService.GetCurrentAsync`
    - `RedirectToAbsoluteUrl` is replaced by redirecting to a call to `IServerUrls.GetAbsoluteUrl`.
- The obsolete and unused `IUserSessionExtensions` interface has been removed.
- The obsolete `IPrincipal.GetName` and `IIdentity.GetName` extension methods have been removed. Use
  `ClaimsPrincipal.GetDisplayName` instead.
- The obsolete `ResourceValidationRequest.IncludeNonIsolatedApiResources` has been removed. This flag was no longer
  used.

#### Unlikely to impact anyone

- The `KeyManagementOptions.SigningAlgorithms` is now an `ICollection` rather than an `IEnumerable`. If you are
  configuring signing algorithms using code, and setting the `SigningAlgorithms` to some type that implements
  `IEnumerable` but not `ICollection`, then you must change the type that you are using. In practice, we expect everyone
  uses a list or array (which are both `ICollections`).

- The value of the constant `IdentityServerAuthenticationType` has changed from "IdentityServer4" to "
  Duende.IdentityServer". This constant is used as the value of the authentication type within
  the [ClaimsIdentity](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/system.security.claims.claimsidentity.-ctor?view=net-7.0#system-security-claims-claimsidentity-ctor(system-security-principal-iidentity-system-collections-generic-ienumerable((system-security-claims-claim))
  -system-string-system-string-system-string)) that IdentityServer constructs. The authentication type's value is never
  used by IdentityServer or ASP.NET, so this is unlikely to impact anyone. It is also the name of the default cors
  policy created by IdentityServer. This could theoretically impact you if you have a CORS policy named "
  Duende.IdentityServer", as the new name now conflicts.

## Step 5: Done!

That's it. Of course, at this point you can and should test that your IdentityServer is updated and working properly.

## Step 6: Troubleshooting .NET 8 Issues :badge[Optional]

You are now done with everything related to the IdentityServer upgrade, but we would also like to add a references to
breaking changes in .NET 8 and associated libraries that are likely to affect the IdentityServer setup.

- Entity Framework Core 8 has some performance improvements in the query generation for Microsoft SQL Server that relies
  on database features that requires a database compatibility level of at least 130. This can cause errors on database
  access like *Microsoft.Data.SqlClient.SqlException (0x80131904): The syntax near '$' is incorrect.* or
  *Microsoft.Data.SqlClient.SqlException (0x80131904): Incorrect syntax near the keyword 'WITH'.* Please
  see https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/ef/core/what-is-new/ef-core-8.0/breaking-changes#mitigations for more
  information.
- For container deployments,
  the [default ASP.NET Core port changed from 80 to 8080](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/core/compatibility/containers/8.0/aspnet-port).
  This might require configuration updates to either continue using port 80 or to migrate to using 8080.
- IdentityServer and the Asp.Net Authentication packages all depends on the `Microsoft.IdentityModel.*` packages. With
  packages that are brought in as transient dependencies there is less control of the versions being pulled in. If
  different packages from the `Microsoft.IdentityModel.`* family end up having different versions, there will be odd
  bugs. We've seen reports where the refresh token isn't stored and where the OIDC handler fails to redirect to an OIDC
  Provider because it failed reading the discovery document. **Always ensure that all Microsoft.IdentityModel.* packages
  are of exactly the same version**. If they are not, you might need to make an explicit `<PackageReference>` to pin an
  exact version.