---
title: Customization
order: 50
---

The behavior of the Configuration API can be customized through the use of
several extension points that control the steps that occur when a dynamic client
registration request arrives.

First, the incoming request is validated to ensure that it is syntactically
valid and semantically correct. The result of the validation process is a model
which will either contain error details or a validated *Client* model.

When validation succeeds, the validated request is passed on to the request
processor. The request processor is responsible for generating properties of the
*Client* that are not specified in the request. For example, the *client_id* is
not normally specified in the request and is instead generated by the processor. 

When the processor is finished generating values, it passes the final client
object to the store and returns an *IDynamicClientRegistrationResponse*
indicating success or failure. This response object is finally used by the
response generator to generate an HTTP response. 

Each of the validation and processing steps might also encounter an error. When
that occurs, errors are conveyed using the *DynamicClientRegistrationError*
class.

## Validation
To customize the validation process, you can either implement the *IDynamicClientRegistrationValidator* interface or extend from the default implementation of that interface, the *DynamicClientRegistrationValidator*. The default implementation includes many virtual methods, allowing you to use most of the base functionality and add your customization in a targeted manner.

Each virtual method is responsible for validating a small number of parameters in the request and setting corresponding values on the client. The steps are passed a context object containing the client object that is being built up, the original request, the claims principal that made the request, and a dictionary of additional items that can be used to pass state between customized steps. Each step should update the client in the context and return an *IStepResult* to indicate success or failure.

For more details, see the [reference section on validation](reference/validation)

## Processing
In a similar way, the request processor can be customized by implementing an *IDynamicClientRegistrationRequestProcessor* or by extending from the default *DynamicClientRegistrationRequestProcessor*. Again, the default request processor contains virtual methods that allow you to override a part of its functionality.

For more details, see the [reference section on request processing](reference/processing)

## Response Generation
Finally, to customize the HTTP responses of the Configuration API, you can implement the *IDynamicClientRegistrationResponseGenerator* or extend from the default *DynamicClientRegistrationResponseGenerator*. 

For more details, see the [reference section on response generation](reference/response)