---
title: "Duende IdentityServer v5.1 to v5.2"
order: 80
---

This upgrade guide covers upgrading from Duende IdentityServer v5.1 to v5.2 ([release notes](https://github.com/DuendeSoftware/products/releases/tag/is%2F5.2.0)).

## Step 1: Update NuGet package

In your IdentityServer host project, update the version of the NuGet. 
For example in your project file:

```xml
<PackageReference Include="Duende.IdentityServer" Version="5.1.0" />
```

would change to: 

```xml
<PackageReference Include="Duende.IdentityServer" Version="5.2.0" />
```

## Step 2: Update Database Schema (if needed)

If you are using a [database](../data) for your configuration data, then there is a database schema update for the new *Dynamic Providers* feature ([more details](https://github.com/DuendeSoftware/IdentityServer/pull/188)).
This includes:

* A new table called *IdentityProviders* for storing the OIDC provider details. Its TSQL schema would look like this:

```sql
CREATE TABLE [IdentityProviders] (
    [Id] int NOT NULL IDENTITY,
    [Scheme] nvarchar(200) NOT NULL,
    [DisplayName] nvarchar(200) NULL,
    [Enabled] bit NOT NULL,
    [Type] nvarchar(20) NOT NULL,
    [Properties] nvarchar(max) NULL,
    CONSTRAINT [PK_IdentityProviders] PRIMARY KEY ([Id])
);
```

If you are using the *Duende.IdentityServer.EntityFramework* package as the implementation for the database and you're using EntityFramework Core migrations as the mechanism for managing those schema changes over time, the commands below will update those migrations with the new changes.
Note that you might need to adjust based on your specific organization of the migration files.

```bash
dotnet ef migrations add Update_DuendeIdentityServer_v5_2 -c ConfigurationDbContext -o Data/Migrations/IdentityServer/ConfigurationDb
```

Then to apply those changes to your database:

```bash
dotnet ef database update -c ConfigurationDbContext
```

## Step 4: Update custom AuthorizeInteractionResponseGenerator (if needed)

If you have created a custom, derived implementation of the *AuthorizeInteractionResponseGenerator*, then the constructor must accept an additional parameter of type *IdentityServerOptions*.
This is needed for the new [tenant validation](https://github.com/DuendeSoftware/IdentityServer/pull/197) in authorize endpoint requests.

## Step 5: Done!

That's it. Of course, at this point you can and should test that your IdentityServer is updated and working properly.
